
PACO - Pattern AutoCOrrelation orbit classification scheme developed
       Nicolas Faber etal (MNRAS 2010 submitted)

This is a C++ coding of the algorithm described in the reference cited
below. The code was written mainly by Sotiris Chatzopoulos (M2, Athens
Acad. Science & Strasbourg Observatory) in the Spring of 2010, with
additions by me (cmb).

- Makefile: uses g++ as default compiler, amend as needed. Target is
  paco.  In the auxiliary functions, the parameter method = 1 leads to
  comparison test as opposed to term-by-term products as in the
  original implementation by N. Faber, as that approach can be
  extended beyond two-bit coding of the pattern (cf. Faber et al.,
  preprint).

- The sample orbit stored in signal.dat was obtained by integration in
  the bar potential of NGC 4314 as defined in Quillen, Frogel, Jay &
  Gonzalez 1994, ApJ...437..162. The rotation speed Omega was set to
  zero (non-rotating bar) and the initial conditions (x,v) were x =
  (1.28494, 0.0094428) and v = (-151.167, 94.9975) with a rough energy
  conservation of 1%, sufficient to identify an 4:3 antifish resonant
  orbit easily.

- In general the notation for phase-space coordinates has w = (x,v) a
  4-dimenstional array but this could easily be exported to higher
  dimensions (including the z-axis position).

- The threshold for identification Upsilon < 1 is an optional
  command-line argument, set to Upsilon = 0.95 by default. A cap value
  of 0.99 is set to avoid possible round-off errors.

- The orbit signal.dat is stored as a rectangular table of time, x-
  and y-positions, vx- vy velocities.  The time-steps are not presumed
  to be constant as this is irrelevant to PACO.

- The data files ACdata.dat, Delta.dat contain respectively the
  identification by auto-correlation of a pattern of length shown in
  the first column (the lowest harmonic is therefore the index for
  which AC is non-zero); Delta.dat contains the result of matching the
  pattern throughout the pattern P, with values 1 (TRUE) or 0 (FALSE),
  of total length = number of orbit crossing - the length lp of the
  unit pattern, p.

Christian Boily 
Leiden, May 2010

Reference : Faber, N., Flitti, F. Boily, C.M., Collete, C., Patsis,
            P.A., Portegies Zwart, SF., 2010, Preprint submitted to MNRAS